---
modified: 2025-08-24 01:53:53
publish: true
published: 2024-05-29
tags:
  - poem
status: completed
---
Two days ago I turned 32
I spent it at the natural history museum
They had a whole special exhibit of just butterflies, who knew. 

Two hundred, or maybe even a thousand, species of these winged beauty 
Just fluttering around the vivarium like dancing children
It made me think of a simpler time, a time before we grew.

Two years old me, grew up in Taiwan, that kid is someone I'm still trying to remember
My mom told me, he was apparently quite the performer. 
Whenever there is a camera, he would make the biggest poses, who knew.

Two times nine, age that kid studied college in LA
The weather, the Jamba Juice, the Palm trees
All just weren't enough to help a lost kid, in a need of rescue.

Two times eleven, the kid is now in New York City
He found a playground for his ambitions
But he also found the paralyzing power of always thinking: "when is rent due?"

Too many jobs he would go through
A bartender, a salesmen, a product manager
He would hop from one to another, and wherever he traveled, he never quite enjoyed the view

Two times, he would be laid off, And twice it would throw him in a whirl
Each time it felt like he did something wrong, that no matter how hard he tried, it was not enough
And through the breath, the ups and downs, the arriving and leaving he finally knew

Too many years, he spent putting on masks
He became a master at it. Master of creating laughs 
And in the process he lost sight of what is true. 

Truman Show, he found himself as a leading role in
He realized that he had accepted, the reality of the world with which he was presented
And questioning all that, well that left him with no clue.

No clue of who he is.
Who?
Who is Andrew?

Two more years before he finally understood
After all the pain, all the feelings, all unraveling that almost made him go insane
That he was always still in a cacoon. And thats when he knew...

To be lost IS part of the journey
That to find light, he needed to see the shadows
That everything I experienced, is exactly what I needed to go through.


Two steps toward the inner me is all it takes
For me to feel my ancestors, and the universe patting me on the back
Telling me "Keep going". That's all we can do

Two more steps I take toward the unknown, the unfamiliar
And even though my legs are shaking my hands are sweating
I finally know that this is where I'm meant to be. To be here with you.

Today I'm here to give you all my heart
I may not know who you are or where you've gone
But I see you and I love you.

Tomorrow if I'm still here I will choose to keep shining
Because I know I know the tiniest speck of hope matters
And I can finally surrender to the river. That's all I can do.

Tonight I'm swimming up here in gratitude
Of all the million things that transpired for you to be right here
And for that, thank you!
