---
title:
publish: true
type: 🌳
published: 2020-02-19
modified: 2025-08-19 22:16:07
status: completed
tags:
  - memory
---
When I first moved to New York back in 2013, it was right when I graduated from college and I found an unpaid internship at a music startup. In order to support myself financially, I found a job as a bartender at a newly opened modern Chinese restaurant through my friend's aunt who was renting it out to the restaurant owner. Before my job interview, my only previous bartending experience was in at my apartment when I was still in college, where I would invite my friends to swing by once every two weeks so I can test out some of my new concoctions. I would even put out a tip jar. So when the restaurant owner asked me, "have you ever bartended before?", I said "yes" without any hesitation and the next thing I knew I was starting my first shift in three days.

On my very first day, I able to limp through most of the job requirements without any large hiccups. These tasks included preparing the garnishes, making simple drinks like an Apple Martini, and using the system to order food correctly. Everything was going well until I was asked to make my first Mai Tai. I still remember that person and moment vividly. It was a gentleman wearing a white collared shirt and as he glanced through the menu to decide what to eat and drink, we had a lengthy conversation about indie movies. He planned to go to a movie theater called the Film Forum just a few blocks down as soon as he finished his meal.

For drinks, he ordered the Mai Tai. Now in order for you as a reader to fully understand and appreciate the magnitude of what's going to go wrong in a short bit, you would need to understand two very important components of the scenario: 1) the type of shaker and 2) the ingredients used to make that drink. Number one, the shaker used at the restaurant was a [Boston Shaker](https://www.crateandbarrel.com/stainless-steel-boston-shaker/s586739?localedetail=US&storeid=633&a=1552&campaignid=880315824&adgroupid=42649983725&targetid=pla-831240682951&pla_sku=586739&pcat=HSW&ag=adult&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIyYv6w_rc5wIVzJyzCh0ivANQEAQYASABEgJ4X_D_BwE), which is basically a two-piece cocktail shaker, that usually consists of a glass and a metal tin but can also contain a smaller metal tin instead. The one that I've used during college was a traditional [Cobbler Shaker](https://umamimart.com/products/cobbler-shaker-stainless) which is a three-piece shaker (mostly used by beginners) that had a lid with a built-in strainer, and a cap to cover the strainer holes while shaking. Number two, Mai Tai is a popular tropical drink that consists of orange juice, pineapple juice, coconut-flavored rum, dark spiced rum, and grenadine (or syrup made from pomegranate juice). If you add one & two together, you get an inexperienced bartender getting ready to shake vigorously a blend of sweet, sticky liquids with a shaker he has never used before. Needless to say, it wasn't going to be pretty.

I last left off with the Mai Tai and the Boston Shaker. Now at this point, I've already poured 2 ounces of pineapple juice and orange juice, a dash of grenadine syrup, 1 ounce of the dark spiced rum, half an ounce of the coconut flavored rum, a cup of ice and now its time for the shaking to begin. Now, the trick to using the Boston Shaker is to make sure the smaller piece of tin is wedged at an angle on top of the larger tin, just like how it's shown here in the picture: [link](https://www.kegworks.com/crafthouse-by-fortessa-footed-boston-shaker-tin-2-piece-set-stainless-steel). I made sure I banged the smaller tin tightly against the large piece, and just picked it up and start shaking vigorously. The two metal felt glued to each other and gently getting colder as the ice cooled the beverage sloshed around in the space between my hands. I felt confident enough to even look up and continue my conversation with the guest about the movie he was going to see. Right as he was in the middle of telling me about the director, I felt two tin pieces separating first in my hands than in the air, in slow motion, and the pink and orange-hued drink danced out of the shaker and straight to the bar table in front of me, splashing myself, the guest, and his pristine white collar shirt.

Thankfully, I was not let go after that incident. Maybe due to the rapport I established before it happened, the guest was irritated but accepted a free glass of white wine and a free appetizer for compensation. I also to this day believe that the restaurant owner kept me because a different guest earlier pointed at me after finishing their dinner and complimented me loudly by saying, "This is exactly the kind of person you want at the front of the house at a restaurant."

The lesson might be this: the most colorfully catastrophic mistakes that we've made in our lives not only makes the best stories but also are lessons that we will always vividly remember and learn the most from. To this day, whenever I find myself in a scenario where I feel like an imposter, I know deep down that no outcome could be worse than a restaurant customer being drizzled with a fresh fruity tropical cocktail.


*Originally published in 200wad.com/Cowriters/app that no longer exists.*