---
title:
publish: true
type: 🌳
published: 2021-03-27
modified: 2025-08-24 01:45:32
status: completed
tags:
  - thought
---
Recently my girlfriend and I both finished Marie Kondo’s book _The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of Decluttering and Organizing_ and we both decide to make some major changes to our living space. One of the first things we wanted to do is to spend a little time write what each of our visions of the living space is. Here’s mine:

I want my home to be a reflection of my long-term vision: one that is filled with life, love, serenity, and growth. I want it to beam at me as soon as I walk through the door after a long day at work or even as soon as I wake up. I want it to hug and comfort me when I’m stressed and feel abandoned by the world. I want to feel constantly surrounded by knowledge (bookshelf) to constantly remind myself that my thirst and curiosity for things unknown is at the root of everything I do. Since I am not great at cleaning per se, I want to be able to look across with one glance across our main living spaces (living room + kitchen) and immediately see if something is misplaced. I want to be able to vacuum the entire living room without having to live up to anything and the primary areas can be reached without having to switch to the tiny head on the vacuum. In terms of style, it combines the calm and minimal interior of the yoga studio, with the straight edges of a Japanese tatami living room, but most importantly with the modern warmness (Hygge) that Scandinavian & Brooklyn style apartments have. The place should feel minimal but still cozy. And despite being a sit-down culture, the number of comfortable pads would still be inviting for friends to sit down, to host warm gatherings, to high board game nights. To support wellness and play.

I want my living room to be the main entree and the literal centerpiece to my activities; to wake up every day and start my meditating on the floor, do a few stretches against the wall to support my long term wellness around my back & spine, to walk to the corner and pick up the weight to do my simple daily active reps of muscle training, then sit back down on a comfortable single person seat to read for an hour. The only thing I should see as I look up is low table that I can put my cup of coffee on, and maybe even a piece of bread for my light breakfast. I would also like Laureen to join me in a seat next to me, to accompany me occasionally on my daily routine. In the evening, it could be the space for joint workout or daily conversations about what’s bothering us. Especially when we’re fighting, I want us to be able to sit comfortably in the middle of the carpet to talk earnestly to each other and have the uncluttered space remind us of the importance of harmony.

I like to view the different rooms as different stations that we can move through seamlessly throughout the day. And one that we spend an almost equal amount of time in each station. Even when I will be working from home, I want to visualize myself only spending a maximum 40% of the day in the study. I want to be able to do different modes of my work in the kitchen dining room and even in the bedroom. I want to feel like at any point in time I have the privacy to be my most authentic self.

The purpose of the living space isn’t to feel like I have so many more things on my to-doist I need to tackle, but rather to support my everyday journey of being my best self. Things like becoming more mindful of the things I’m doing not doing. Things like how emotional I’m being when the home is glowing with positivity, energy, and just overall peace. I want my home to support the plethora of interests I want to pursue, from creative pursuits like learning to draw, sketch, and even create sculptures. To play a musical instrument just by picking up the guitar or trumpet. I want it to inspire optimism, to ourselves every day, and to everyone who walks in here. I don’t want it to bring anxiety and shame whenever someone is visiting, like oh we have so much we need to do to clean up. It should always be a source of pride, comfort. A sanctuary we can trust even on our worst days. Items are always placed in a way where it encourages our best habits and discourages the bad ones. TV is placed in our bedroom but is also set up in a way that encourages our movie nights. When people visit, we are always sitting in a circle, that encourages an equal amount of interactions, balancing the dynamics. I want music or ambient sounds to be constantly playing at least in one room at every point of time, to remind us of the joys of going through our days, or to remind us to move, to dance, to smile. I want the flexibility of light in all our rooms even when the sun is down.


*Originally published in 200wad.com/Cowriters/app that no longer exists.*